= Description

A compromise between building a perfect custom authentication system and using
HTTP Authentication. You get a standard authentication system that is familar
to users (like doing a custom system) with very little work (like HTTP Auth).

= Setup

Add to your Gemfile

    gem 'logmein'

If the model being authenticated is something other than "User" then in an
initializer add:

    Logmein.authenticated_model_name = 'Account'

Replace 'Account' with whatever your actual model name is. The model should use
AuthLogic and likely will look something like this:

    class User < ActiveRecord::Base
      acts_as_authentic
    end

Although it is up to you to define the model this library does provide a
migration to add the fields necessary for authentication. Just run:

    rake railties:install:migrations

= Access Control

ALL actions are assumed to be restricted and you must open up actions if you
want them available to the general public. You do this by defining a
PUBLIC_ACTIONS constant in your controller. The value of this constant is
an array of action names. So:

    class UsersController < ApplicationController
      PUBLIC_ACTIONS = %w(show)
    end

This will make the "show" action on the UsersController accessible by anyone.
All other actions on this controller will be restricted. If the constant is
not defined then all actions will require an authenticated record.

When an un-authenticated user attempts to access a restricted action they will
automatically be redirected to the login screen. After a successful login they
will automatically be taken back to the restricted action (only if the
action was a GET request as we cannot redirect to another HTTP request type).

If a user goes directly to the login page (i.e /login) this add-on won't know
where to send the user after login. By default the user is sent to root_url
since most applications define a "root" route that goes to the home page. If you
want to override this default simply adjust in an initializer.

    Logmein.login_destination = :profile_url

The value should be a symbol which can then be called via "send" in the
controller. Usually this will be a named route.

Logout works the same way. After logout you are sent to the "root" route by
default but can override by putting the following in an initializer.

    Logmein.logout_destination = :login_url

= Tips and Tricks

* A "login" and "logout" route is defined allowing your URL to be more familar
  than the REST routes (GET /session/new and DELETE /session).
* To get the current user use the helper "current_user". This is available in
  controllers, helpers and view. If you change the authenticated model this
  method will be renamed to match (i.e. current_account if your model is
  Account).
* The login page will check for the method "new_password_path". If that method
  is defined, a forgot password link will be created on the login page. This
  allows you easily to have a forgot password feature without having to override
  the login template. There is a companion Rails add-on called "remindme" that
  provides this functionality.

= Alternatives

There are many ways to implement authentication in Rails.

== Custom Authentication

Making a custom implementation from ground up provides a user experience that
fits in perfectly with the app. Necessary for some apps, but really the most
expensive way to go. Often less tested then using off-the-shelf code, so more
room for authentication bugs. User privacy and security are too important to
assume that it is easy to write from ground up without a lot of code review and
testing.

== Authentication Generator

A generator gets a standard authentication up and running quickly. You can then
customize to meet the needs of an app. Increased reliability over a custom
implementation since the generator likely has had more eyes looking at the code.
Also quick time to implement and still full ability to customize. But it adds a
lot of code to your project that you may not end up customizing. This extra code
must still be maintained adding extra on-going costs. As the generator gets
enhanced you cannot take advantage of those enhancements easily.

= Re-usable models, custom controller/views

A good example of this is AuthLogic. Lowers the barrier for creating a custom
implementation by providing all the hard bits and letting you just focus on
workflow and the visual UI. The extensive customization options and
extensibility means that most anything is still open but with a lot less work.
While an excellent solution sometimes you just don't care that much about having
your login system being a perfect unique snowflake. You just want to drop
something in and not have to think much more about it.

= HTTP Auth

A drop-in authentication supported by Rails and browers out-of-the-box. Quick
and easy to implement and supported by any browser. But the user experience is
quite poor. The login prompt is a UI liability (ugly, hard to provide
instruction, etc). Also many features users expect from a login system
(remember me, forgot password, etc) are not an option. It doesn't even have an
ability to logout!

= logmein

While all the above options have their place, I wanted a development experience
like HTTP Auth but with a UI experience more like the other options. This is
what this Rails add-on provides. You can have a login system in minutes.
Customization is limited (to keep things simple) but is still more flexible and
capabile than HTTP Auth. Even if you think you eventually want your own system
in your app this is a greater starter login system that you can then later
replace after you have gotten more important things implemented relevant to your
application domain.

= CREDIT

* Developed by Eric Anderson (http://pixelwareinc.com)
* Enhanced via projects developed under Red Tusk Studios (http://redtusk.com)
* SaveYourCall.com (http://saveyourcall.com), a call recording service,
  also contributed towards development.
